So please welcome enthusiastically and more me,
Viv.
Cost Croft.
Thank you very much.
In the spirit of Google translate,
I feel like I should say you loss by sea,
but the Yellow Blue Tibia,
that's very rude or any Russian speaking.
Yeah.
So what did you say that hello?
Thank you.
I love you.
How are you?
I can see this is going to be a great,
a great chat with you.
Let's just start with what,
what do you mean owning the room?
What does that mean?
Wow.
You just demonstrated it actually with that little slipup that you had not being
able to say and that Cardinia,
Nah.
Uh,
so can you say it now?
No.
And owning the room,
it's about feeling really comfortable in the spotlight.
So comfortable that you're okay with failing.
That's,
that's it.
Basically.
Because in everyday life when we're talking to people,
when we're just moving through our lives,
we don't go around thinking,
oh,
I'm going to meet by Fred with coffee for coffee,
but I haven't prepared anything to say,
you know,
we,
we move three life very comfortably and we don't question ourselves.
But suddenly when we're in a position like not,
not literally like this,
but sometimes literally like this where we're in a spotlight,
but that spotlight can feel like it comes anytime.
Like in an interview situation,
job interview in a difficult conversation with your boss,
a in a confrontation.
We can feel like we're in that spotlight and that is the moment when the
adrenaline comes and we have that fight or flight,
which is a very natural human reaction.
It's about learning how to be comfortable with that controller and feel like
you're just owning yourself in the way that you do in normal moments.
I've gotten quite poor Mckenna quite early on.
That's okay.
So,
um,
we're going to go into things sort of get practical about what you learned and
what you've shared in the book.
Before we do that,
I mentioned this idea of doing a hundred standup gigs in a hundred days,
which you did when you had a child under one.
I think a is if it wasn't stressful enough and just tell us a bit about like,
why did you do,
why you do?
Some people will do anything to avoid bad time for small children.
And I was one of those people and they,
what happened to me was the,
as you said,
I had this long and very happy career as a freelance journalist.
I started my career in my early twenties working in old school fleet streets,
which lots of the beautiful young people in the rain and to even remember,
uh,
I,
so I had to office job until I was about 25 working for places like the Daily
Express and the Daily Telegraph and places I hated.
And that was a good experience for me to be in a job I hated.
It made me go freelance.
And then I had about 10 years of loving writing and freelancing and that was how
I was able to have my three children.
I have three children,
which is an answer to the question,
how many children there's to money.
And as I go into my mid thirties and I felt like I had a lot of control over my
life because I had a lot of flexibility and I loved my work.
I began to realize that as my children were growing up,
I was telling them a lie.
So I was always saying to them,
do what you want with your life.
Live your dreams.
Don't let other people tell you what to do.
Um,
the more I said this to them,
then more memorialize.
It wasn't true for me and that the thing I'd always wanted to do,
which was to perform,
to entertain,
to be in the spotlight,
to really try stand up comedy was what I really wanted to do.
I'd never done it because I was too damn chicken.
I was cheeky.
That's what you wanted to do.
Um,
I had had an idea from,
went from when I was a child of people who again,
were too young to remember the kids from fame.
Yeah.
1980s.
Doris,
Doris Schwartz,
and Bruno Martelli.
It's from fame.
Mr Swarovski
don't,
Doris Schwartz was this character in the sort of mid eighties,
a woman stand up,
uh,
in the New York High School of the performing arts and um,
New York is in the room cringing.
And then I loved her when I was a child,
but I grew up in the kind of environment where my parents later turned out to be
massive Brexit voters until I quiet sort of closed,
don't take any risks,
do not do anything creative sort of environment.
So I was never,
I didn't feel I was able to set that as a goal.
Like I'd love to do stand up.
I'd love to do acting if I could live my life over again.
I would've done that from a much younger age.
But instead I kind of was like,
okay,
well maybe I can be a writer.
And just through seeing my own kids grow up and realizing that,
you know,
life is too short to stifle the stuff you really want to do.
I had to acknowledge,
yeah,
actually I'm kind of hiding behind this keyboard.
I'm hiding behind the words and I've got to get out there and at least try.
And so I ended up doing some workshops and all that kind of stuff that you do
when you first try it.
And realizing that I loved it after the first workshop I ever did in standup
comedy when I was 35 I'm 45 now.
I know,
it's amazing.
And uh,
I came home and my husband said to me after doing three hours of this standup
training,
this is the most relaxed I've seen you in 10 years.
And I knew I really wanted to do it,
but then you learn very quickly how hard it is to actually do it and that if you
are going to do it seriously,
you better get to a hundred gigs fast.
And I just had my third child,
um,
and he turned one.
When he turned one I was like,
okay,
you've had enough attention from me.
Now I'm going out every night,
a hundred gigs,
a hundred nights.
And that was in 2011 and since then I've gone on to do five shows,
Adam Bra,
one woman shows,
and ended up hosting book tools for Graham Norton,
dawn French and Saunders doe brands,
and moving into more radio and TV work,
which is what I really wanted to do.
So it was a route to something else.
Yeah,
it was.
And I would,
if you'd have said to me 10 years ago,
oh,
you're going to be doing standup and you're going to go on stage with,
with,
you know,
Graham Norton or any of these people,
and then you're going to write a book for people about how to own the room,
I would be like,
no thanks.
No,
I don't really want,
that.
Sounds horrible.
But as time went on,
I realized how much I learned about all of this and that I really wanted to pass
it on to other people and have this discussion about it's not an entirely
gendered discussion and that's really important point to make.
But I do think it's harder sometimes for women to try these things.
And that's obviously a huge conversation in comedy is why aren't there as many
women,
I think we've loads more women are coming through now and the last 10 years I've
seen a massive change,
but the numbers are always really skewed.
And on a comedy bill,
your often the only woman out of six and you're genuinely going to be the
opener,
like the lowest status spot.
Um,
all that stuff.
so having learned how to do this on the fly late in life,
I wanted to pass it on.
And then I found,
I was constantly thinking of for the idea for this book and for the podcast
where I interview lots of women about,
about all of this stuff.
I was thinking,
I can't write that because who will listen to me?
I can't,
I'm not famous.
No one knew.
I'm not a massively successful standup comedian.
Like,
and I remember saying to this friend of mine who's a writer,
I can't write this book.
This book should be written by Joan Rivers.
Like Joan,
who,
who would want to read how to own the room by Joan Rivers?
I mean that would be the most amazing book ever.
And my friend just looked at me and said,
Viv,
Joan Rivers is dead.
And if she were an eye,
she went to not be bothered to write this book.
She is not a book writing kind of person,
although she did write a lot of books,
but she would not want to write this book.
So this is your book,
this is your idea.
Put it out there and see if people are interested.
And that the book came out in November,
I met use shortly after it came out and it's become a best seller.
It's sold in three countries.
It's coming out in Canada next week.
I'm,
the podcast has gone top 10 on Itunes,
which the podcast got put together in two weeks.
Literally because Mary Portas,
uh,
the retail,
Gloria came to me and said,
how can I help you with your book?
And I said,
well,
it's coming out in two weeks so I can't interview you for it or anything.
How about I interview you for the,
which doesn't actually exist,
but it will if you say yes to an interview.
And she said yes.
And so then suddenly I had a podcast which happened in two weeks.
So
you are on a mission though.
And he really,
yeah,
because this stuff is really important and I've been really,
um,
I've had a lot of moments of being really upset actually of what I,
the stories that have come out from doing these kind of events.
Um,
I do one on one work with people.
I do workshops where people can come and have a clinic with me for 10 minutes.
And I do little in interventions about presentation and confidence and man as
well as women,
but often from women,
like the depth of people's insecurity and the weight that they're carrying with
them about,
um,
my voice sounds weird.
No one wants to listen to my voice.
I've got an annoying voice.
Um,
I feel like I'm talking about myself here.
all of these tiny little niggling gremlins are so prevalent in every body.
Yeah.
And there's got to be a way to talk about this and get rid of it because
everybody thinks it's personal to them and they have this specific problem that
they would need some help with and it's not everybody has it.
Yeah,
absolutely.
So,
um,
I want to get into the book.
So one of the things I love about the book as it's written in chapters around
people and so be more Michelle Obama is the first chapter.
Yes.
Demonstrate it now Matt,
I'm doing it.
You actually are.
I said to Viv,
actually I uh,
that chapter is about something called happy high status and we'll ask you about
that in a second.
But yesterday I had those three words in my mind when I went on stage at a big
technology media and telecom is event and I was speaking between the CEO of sky
owned by Rupert Murdoch and the CEO of News Corp owned by Rupert Murdoch.
And I was thinking,
I know what these guys are going to say about the technology companies and I'm
going to be more Michelle Obama in between.
And so thank you.
No.
But now I have a snoop.
Did he wear a sleeveless?
Quite gold this time.
So
but happy high status.
Yeah.
That is a great concept.
Tell us about that.
Yes.
I,
when I first started training in,
in standup and taking all of these workshops and trying to work out how I was
going to start doing this stuff,
uh,
I came across this idea in Improv comedy called happy high status.
And it's about the moment where you are so open and comfortable in a space that
you can accept disagreement,
you can accept descent,
you can accept that the person coming after you is going to you.
You can take on haters and be like,
yeah,
tell me more about why you hate me and be very open and collegiate where there
and allow everybody's,
uh,
viewpoints to exist at any one time.
Um,
I am personally not very good at this because I'm quite neurotic,
but it's an energy that you need to have a,
for example,
if you're emptying in comedy where you might have to switch the energy from one
comedian to the next,
you might have to bring up the energy in the room or calm it down if somebody
was really crazy.
And it's about being able to feel your way into situations where you make sure
everybody feels unthreatened and everybody feels welcome.
And Michelle Obama is the expert of this.
But the other example to show it's not gendered as well.
The other example is George Clooney.
So the fee,
the story,
they use an Improv about George Clooney.
It's supposed to be a made up story,
but I like to think it's true unless it's going to happen to me one day.
So you imagine that you are going to a Hollywood party,
it's the Oscars and you're going to the Vanity Fair party,
which recently discredited by the New York Times.
But imagine it's still in its hay day and you're going to this fabulous party.
Everybody's in black tie.
You're late.
To your meeting,
your friends,
who you really want to see on the way in.
You tap her waiter on the shoulder to ask for a drink because you're late and
you're in a hurry.
Oh,
could you just get me a drink?
You go and join your friends.
The waiter comes over with the drink,
you turn round,
it's George Clooney and you mistook George Clooney for a waiter,
which in a black tie situation could happen,
right?
Matthew,
move in these circles.
I've done it twice,
right?
And the happy high states,
his lesson is that George Clooney hands you a cocktail or your glass or
champagne or whatever without making you remotely feel small because he's George
Clooney and he can,
and Michelle Obama could do that.
Barack Obama could do that.
They're not going to turn around and say,
excuse me,
I'm not a cocktail later,
but to show you that happy high status is not the same as high status.
The person you could not do that with is Donald Trump.
So it's not about conferred status or a business card.
It's not about the actual position that you occupy in the hierarchy.
It's about how you conduct yourself with other people.
He's a great concept.
Thank you for sharing that.
You mentioned Joan ridges,
rivers.
She's in your book as well.
Be More Joan Rivers.
What do we do when we want to be more Joan?
Oh my God.
Well,
I was,
I was tricky.
I'm including Joan Rivers in this actually,
um,
particularly because she's an example of somebody.
I think his comedy would not exist anymore nowadays cause woke,
she ain't,
uh,
so that I wanted to include her as an example of a person who is everything
we're told,
man,
I'm winning.
We shouldn't,
so we shouldn't talk too fast.
We must make sure that we speak in a measured way.
We must,
uh,
lots of women are always saying,
should I lower my tone so that people can hit?
No,
no.
Just speak like a normal person and Joan Rivers breaks and lots of these rules.
Okay.
She can't because she's a standup comedian,
but she's a person who speaks way too fast,
who has way too much entity.
You can barely sort of keep up with what she's saying supposedly.
And yet you never miss a single word.
So I wanted to include lots of examples in the book of women who break the rules
because there's a lot of these kind of fake bullshit rules around speaking and
presenting and how we come across to people that we all know.
In reality,
we all have,
even within our day to day lives and work like managers who,
they're not a stereotypical manager,
they are actually maybe a bit more introverted than you would expect.
Or there's somebody who's a bit more relaxed in a corporate culture than you.
There are always people who break the rules.
And for me it's really important to try and find your own energy and your own
style by looking at these people and saying,
oh,
that's,
that's not orthodox.
How are they getting away with that?
That's really interesting to me.
So we were working on trying to get,
uh,
workshop lined up so people can experience this in practice,
which will be great.
So look out for dates on that.
Um,
but what,
what do you most often find when you're working with people?
Is there something that's a really common issue that you have to encourage
people to deal with or is everybody got their own different challenges?
There's one very specific thing I want to mention because I've noticed you doing
it Matt.
So there's,
it's really interesting.
I know we had lunch in your lovely canteen before we came on stage and you were
talking,
he's really what you want.
No you're not cause you,
you have the high to,
so you're not worried about what I'm going to say.
So you're okay.
You're okay.
So we were talking in a group of about 10 of us in an informal conversational
situation and you and lots of other people in the group and probably me as well
when we were talking,
we tend to talk like this and say what's been going on in our week and
everything that we say goes up at the end of every sentence.
And I was really interested because I noticed you were doing it as well.
And I often say,
oh this is something that's very common to women and younger women.
And,
and I was very interested to notice that you followed that inflection as well,
which is totally useful and appropriate in a conversational setting.
However,
lots of people then transfer that into a formal interview presentation situation
and it makes everything you say sounds like a suggestion and it weakens your
power.
And it's the one thing that everybody needs to work on.
Because if I start talking to you like this,
you don't know if I really mean what I'm saying.
And last weekend I went to Paris and my husband's name's Simon.
Did I even know my husband's name?
I mean it's,
yeah,
so it,
it's uh,
and it's really interesting to me that you were talking like that because this
kind of talking is actually necessary for forging bonds and for showing,
you know,
this isn't a formal situation where we're having a normal chat.
This is day to day,
but the moments where you are in the spotlight and you want to step up and be
heard,
move out of that,
hey,
we're just hanging out in the canteen and having some Laksa.
There's a fun lunch.
I'm so good.
So it's,
we shouldn't have had that second vodka cutter.
No,
it's,
it's recognizing the difference between conversational speech and more formal.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
Now you made me feel a little uneasy,
but thank you.
That was intentional.
No.
Can I ask you another question?
You see that it is a question.
I'm really confused.
So what I'm going to do,
I'm going to come to you for questions,
uh,
in a moment.
So please come to the mic in a sentence.
I say something.
You as well say the I'm embarrassed.
Okay.
Right.
Um,
so Matt and I,
we,
we don't really know each other,
right?
But we are neighbors.
We live two minutes walk apart and our children have been at the same school
then at different times.
And I have known for a while,
there's this Scott,
I live in Teddington.
There's this guy who lives locally who works for Google,
Matt from Google,
and he's a parent,
right?
I going with this.
Right?
And so then I met Matt,
yes.
At a friend's party.
And I'm like,
Oh yeah,
he's the Guy Matt from Google.
He lives here.
Um,
and we talked about this.
We did.
And you said,
Oh,
I'm really interested in this.
This is so important for people to talk about this.
Can you come around and chat about it?
And so I go round to,
he invites me to his house.
Gonna chat about it.
I'm thinking,
Oh yeah,
yeah.
Matt from Google is a parent at the school.
And on the way I thought,
I'm just going to check who he is.
I was googling.
I was like,
oh,
okay.
Yeah.
So what was it that came up that
I was Oh,
I see.
It was not very kind to me actually.
Yeah.
Well No,
no,
I don't mean that something came up.
I just mean I then realized who you were.
Okay.
Because I was thinking I was just getting to meet this guy for it called Matt
who,
who's from Google?
Um,
yeah.
So can I ask you another question?
Yes,
you can.
Okay.
So thank you very much of that story.
Ah,
you didn't like,
so something else you mentioned in the book and,
and I think people will have maybe heard of before,
it's like how physic,
how your physical posture can,
can help you or hinder you in these settings as well.
And you have a chapter,
it'd be more Amy Cuddy.
She's a body language expert.
And I was like going through the book actually,
I was watching each of these people on Youtube and what you meant is really
interesting to read the book and see the,
the stuff.
So what,
what does,
what does she teach us
how the is probably somebody,
somebody,
lots of people in the room will know.
She has one of the most watched ted talks ever about power poses.
So embrace this smart.
Okay.
Ah,
you see,
right.
So,
uh,
if people haven't watched this ted talk,
it's from about five years ago.
It's now in about 50 million views.
And Amy Cuddy,
she has a book called presence,
which is all about body language.
Um,
but it's more about how your body language affects how you feel inside rather
than how it affects how you come across to other people.
So power poses are
wonder women.
Usain Bolt's
very nice and the one I call Citi banker less.
Yeah.
The whole point of the power pays is,
is opening up your body and her ted talk explains if you hold these poses in a
private place,
like not in your meeting,
hello,
you guys were private place and you hold this pose for at least two minutes,
it changes the chemicals in your brain.
That's what her research showed is very interesting because that was five years
ago and then that went viral and led to a book and everything.
And since then of course because she's popular neuroscience or the other neuro
sciences said,
actually no,
there is not enough evidence to show the chemicals in the brain and your sample
size is very small and that it's been a bit of a sad kind of thing.
But for me,
these power poses really work.
I don't care if the real science is there or not.
I'd done it.
It works.
And it makes a lot of sense to me of this opening up of the body,
not for public consumption.
So it's not about how you come across to other people,
but for fooling yourself into,
oh,
I've got this and that feeling of you bolt crossing the finishing line is the
feeling of I've got this and it's very hard if he's been and stood in a dressing
room in a toilet in like standing over there,
I was like this,
um,
it totally you and takes away any feelings of smallness and nerves that you
might have.
And something else you touched on in the book is,
is that people take their cue from you,
um,
in terms of,
yeah,
if you're on stage and your nervous and their attentions on yeah.
You see the difference in how someone comes across when they do this.
Yeah.
It's so important.
So if you go into a situation with this bigger energy,
I think we're frightened of this because we don't want to come across as a,
as an asshole.
Can I say like I've said it now.
Um,
so we don't want to come across as that person.
You know,
nobody wants to be that person who he,
you know,
we don't,
nobody really wants to be like,
Hey,
I own the room.
You know,
nobody wants to be that person.
So we're scared of that openness and that,
but in fact,
most people,
they just need a bit more of that and a bit less of this.
And don't be afraid to like overdo it.
You can always rein it back in,
but we're so afraid that we go too far the other way and we don't need.
And then other people,
they do take their cue from you in all things.
You know,
how you enter a stage,
how you enter a room that they will meet you with the same energy.
Do please come to the microphone because have we go?
Fantastic.
I'm terrified.
I'm just going to get an interrogation or more.
Thank you very much.
Go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you so much.
I really enjoyed the talk.
Um,
I have a question around,
um,
how you started,
in terms of failure.
Like actually you,
you mentioned that owning the room is being comfortable with failing.
And I guess my question is,
especially because you do stand up comedy,
um,
have you ever failed when you've actually owned the room and what was it like to
kind of pick yourself up from that point and actually take control of the room
again and if it was even in the same situation or if it was when you came back
to it?
I almost didn't listen to the,
I did listen to the question but I almost didn't listen to the question cause
you have a great tone and great presence.
I know up talk unless it's a question.
Very lovely.
Yeah.
The question is we all have so much to learn.
Uh,
the question is,
yeah,
what,
so what constitutes failure and how have I recovered from that?
In sounds up,
you learn nothing unless you fail.
And it's like any artist.
I'm not saying standup has an artistic endeavor.
I,
I think it's a bit pretentious to say that,
but in any creative endeavor or something where you're giving people something
that they didn't actually ask for,
that's always the really interesting thing is that you're trying to say you
didn't ask for this or you're not expecting this,
but look,
you're going to like it.
It's that is always a huge risk and constitutes she's failure.
So many times I would fail very badly.
I remember the first time I ever did a Sassy night gig and that's a big deal.
And when I was trying to do my hundred gigs in a hundred nights,
I could never get Saturday nights booked because that's the night when people
pay a lot of money to see professionals.
And I was not a professional then and I'd be missing a night.
And because I was doing a hundred gigs,
100 consecutive nights,
that would mean I'd have to do to the next night.
Or if I missed three Saturdays,
they don't have to do three and one other night.
And so I was desperate to get this Saturday night gig and I got it and I was
opening.
And I did material,
the I done maybe 20 or 30 gigs before a five minute slot that had gone really
well and I knew it was good.
It was solid,
it was gold,
solid gold and absolutely bombed in a room of about 200 people.
That's a lot of silence and it was a full on tumbleweed for the whole of the
time and I had no skills and no experience of knowing how to turn that around
and my head split into three parts.
The first part is the front of my heads.
Keep talking,
keep talking,
just keep going,
keep going.
Middle Part,
think of something else to say,
find some know and there isn't anything.
Then you know what?
Nothing.
And the back part of my head.
The third part was like,
why don't you decide what method of suicide you're going to use
when this is over?
Because you will not want to live in society any longer because you have shamed
yourself.
And it was really,
really horrific.
And it was a painful death because lots of the other death I've had,
like many deaths,
a open Mike or whereas the workshop vide or as much easier,
the audience knows you're new,
but there's some my first professional thing and I,
and I fluffed it and I went to the back of the room after I'd finished and you
know,
walked offstage to like
walk of shame.
And I said to this comedian at the back of the room,
what am I doing wrong?
What am I doing wrong?
Is it what I'm wearing?
Is it my hair?
Is My boy?
I was kind of,
I can understand why it worked once,
but not that time.
And he looked to me and I thought,
Oh wow,
he's going to say something so profound now and it's going to change everything.
And he said,
just be funny.
Right?
And I did walk home in tears and I was still crying the next morning.
But after a while I learned,
especially because then I was doing my hundred gigs and that was the trick of
the hundred gigs.
That was like number 27.
Well,
tomorrow's number 28 let it go.
So I had to go back and do another one and then the next night it was fine.
And the thing is,
he was right.
Just be funny.
Like just fail.
Learn from it.
Try again and just be,
but you know,
that's a stupid thing to say.
It's like saying just relax.
But the reality is,
is just force yourself through difficult situations.
Accept it as a learning curve.
And I wish I hadn't put myself through so much personal torture because what I
was experiencing was not really personal to me.
It was the process,
processes failure and learning from failure.
Thank you.
Yeah,
no welcome.
Wow.
Um,
my question was just around humor and how important you feel about is.
I guess it's one of those things you mentioned you either innately habit where
you don't.
So would you suggest that people should learn to be humorous or use humor?
Was that the only tool?
What would you say?
Oh I love the question.
Well this is a,
there are two parts to this question.
Number one is do you have to be born funny?
And I think some people are naturally funny and they can channel that in
different ways.
Being naturally funny in life doesn't necessarily translate to being funny as a
performer.
And there are lots of performers who are really awkward in life and lots of
[inaudible] they really are.
And there are lots of people who are very funny in life who you put them in a
standup situation and you actually working from a script and that's a whole
different disciplines.
So knowing what's funny on stage is not the same as knowing what's funny in
life.
Um,
but I don't think that you're necessarily born with it or not born with there.
I think you can allow yourself to play cause a lot of it is about accessing your
childhood self.
Cause when we're kids we're all pretty funny,
right?
All kinds of funny.
It's a funny half kids.
Yeah.
Let that be the message to you
today.
Happy International Women's Day.
Have children.
No.
Use contraception.
That's mostly,
yeah,
but [inaudible] sorry.
Sorry.
Um,
but yeah,
kids,
kids
funny.
And when we kids we play and we make each other laugh and with silly and we
don't care.
And then ran about the age of like parents will recognize this age of seven,
eight,
nine what they call the social editor starts to kick in and the social editor is
the person who makes you think inside.
Oh No,
what if other people think I said the role thing and Oh,
in this situation I'm not allowed to do that and this really important to have
that social editor.
Otherwise we would all be,
you know,
leaking out stuff the whole time and acting out,
which is what kids do.
Um,
but it's really sad because the flip side of that is that we lose the play that
we have.
So anytime that you feel like you want to get more humor into something,
just try and access your kid self.
Yeah.
To your answer to for other questions.
Oh,
here we go.
Thank you.
So let's say you work with a range of clients who are high sadness to happy,
high status
asking for a friend.
Yeah.
And you are not yet either status but more of an aspiring happy high status.
How do you own the room as that person with high size?
Very interesting.
Specifically working with,
yeah,
some people who've had difficult and some people who are fine.
You're saying?
Yeah,
like an Anna Wintour for example.
Aw.
What would you do if Anna winter was your boss?
Right.
What a great example.
So yeah,
I mean Anna Winter is somebody who is not happy,
high status,
right?
She is guarded,
unhappy.
Well.
So I imagine in herself she's very happy.
She's got things set up just how she wants,
but she's kind of guarded,
high status.
But the queen is not happy,
Um,
she can't be,
you know,
she can't have the same energy as Michelle Obama.
So for example,
Michelle Obama,
when she met the Queen,
she touched her,
which was a breach of protocol.
But she's so happy.
I say to she,
she got away with it.
The Queen would not touch anybody because she's not in that kind of happy zone
and neither was Anna winter.
She's in that kind of garden zone.
For me it's really important to underline that point of it's not about the
status that you actually occupy.
It's about your energy and your generosity and your willingness to accept any
opinion and work with whoever you're working with and yeah,
it's not a magic wand.
So sometimes you work with difficult people and the reality is they are
difficult and it doesn't matter how happy.
How states as you are happy high Stacy's might help you be more zen about
accepting,
oh yeah,
this person is quite tricky but that's about them.
It's not about me.
I'm going to maintain my,
yeah,
my poise.
I just,
as you're talking,
I think there's something about getting your attention off yourself and not
taking it personally.
Radio test and I think what you say about high status,
happy ice status seems to me it's about putting people at ease and having that
sort of grace to be able to do that.
There's something in that about getting her attention off yourself,
which is hard to do when there's somebody that makes you feel sort of defensive
or smaller.
Yeah,
exactly.
And that is something that is very hard one in comedy because there can often be
negative energy somewhere in the room.
Like people are often too drunk or they could even be violence in the room or
they could be,
um,
just somebody in a bit of the room who doesn't really like you and his hair for
someone else and you have to learn to like,
that's fine.
No,
everybody has to be here to like me.
You're a bit drunk.
Great.
Let's look after you,
make sure you're okay.
You want to hackle okay,
let you have your moment.
It's having that kind of lightness of everything is fine.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
One thing you talked about in the book is,
you know,
there are often occasions when you're asked to be on a stage or a platform when
you're part of a panel and you know,
how should you behave when you're not the person talking.
And just before we came on we talked about that and say,
well you need,
if you want to know how not to do it,
look at Alan Partridge and I've been struggling ever since then with the sort
of,
that's a very good impression.
Been working on it for awhile.
So um,
just tell us a bit more about that.
You know,
there are a whole bunch of other things to do with being on stage where the
attention is on you are not on your,
how'd you deal with that sort of mixture of things.
You did lots of hosting panels for example and that kind of,
yeah,
I had to learn this uh,
over a long period of time because I was staying in before I was really
confident doing a lot of stuff on my own.
I started,
and this is a good lesson for anybody who wants to do more speaking,
volunteer for the kind of,
I was going to say vice president role,
but that's a bit grand.
But the volunteer to be the moderator volunteer to be the person like Hank,
I'm Hannah dead.
Then the in person introducing volunteer to be part of it but not the keynotes.
And so then you have to learn sometimes how to be on stage when the attention
isn't on you.
And as you say,
there's a tendency sometimes if you're on a panel or you're an interviewer and
somebody giving a very long answer,
um,
to to be like,
mm,
you know,
I to almost sort of overly show how self conscious you are.
So you have to learn how to have an active listening role and I don't,
it's annoying.
I don't have a pen with me,
but I would do you have a pen?
Right.
So what I would often do is have pointless pen point.
This pen is very useful for that role also in meetings.
So it's going to avoid you doing this or
you know,
we've all done that.
Right?
So if you have pointless pan your disciplines to hold it and be still and just
be actively listening.
And that's useful I think in meetings as well as,
yeah,
in a public situation where actually at an awards thing,
I have to do awards things where they could be 27 awards and there's loads of
stuff going on on the stage and people having their photos taken and I have to
stand there and I'm not be like,
Oh,
I'm checking my,
I can't check my phone or look bored,
you know,
I've got,
and this could go on over three hours.
I have to be engaged.
So pointless pen twice.
She's my secret weapon.
Yeah,
absolutely.
But the other thing I want to say in relation to that is sometimes it doesn't
matter that you don't have anything to say.
And that's really important on a panel as a moderator in meetings of it doesn't
always have to be your turn to talk.
Sometimes it can be your turn to listen to facilitate others.
Yes.
I think the audience is always grateful when I just pass onto the next person.
So it's good mostly.
No,
that's true,
isn't it?
When you were in the audience,
you don't necessarily want everyone on the panel to say yes,
let me just build on that.
Exactly.
Really annoying.
And on panels,
what I love is where the panelists talk to each other and the moderator says,
yeah,
in advance,
please don't,
you know,
use me as your safety net and as your like,
oh,
I'd like to speak next,
but speak across each other.
Yeah,
absolutely.
Yeah.
Jessica.
Hi.
Um,
my question is actually connected to what you're discussing now.
I think often at Google we have to go out in groups or pairs and we might go to
client events or various situations where you can't own the room and sometimes
it's obvious who that leader is and you might know or you know,
it's my turn to be low presence.
I guess my question is around how do you recommend dealing with that,
either having that conversation beforehand or even if you're in a low presence
role,
how do you still own that moment without taking the limelight from either one of
your colleagues or clients?
Yeah,
for me that's a happy high status question.
And of course you need to have a clear conversation,
I think as you would at any performance of an or you know who's going on first,
how are we going on together?
Who's going to be introducing her?
Like setting the parameters and the expectations and the sign pasting is not
only good for you but good for whoever you're going to see.
I'm like,
Oh yeah,
this is the person who's taking the lead.
And you don't have to say those things when you get into a meeting,
but you'll just show it and your body language.
So being open and agree upfront and agreeing those things.
But also the thing I learned is it's not all,
it's not about you,
it's not about you and it doesn't have to be about you.
And I had to learn that when I was doing,
sometimes when I was early on doing things like Graham Norton,
but tour or dawn French book tour and stuff,
I would be really,
really nervous going on and thinking people need to know about me.
This is a big audience.
They should know about me and they should know that I'm a comedian.
And Oh my God,
what if some of them think I'm not funny and I had to remind myself,
this is know about you.
You are just there to be a safety net for that person to be the fall guy if they
need you.
You got to find your other space,
your own space to shine in.
So knowing when it's your moment and living up to it and knowing when it isn't
is really important.
Thank you.
Actually can I just answer that cause I think,
um,
one thing I think really helps is preparation.
So whether it's in a meeting,
whenever kind of once you've really well prepared then you can pay attention to
what's going on in the room.
And so something like this,
I actually prepare a lot for this kind of thing.
So I've read your book,
I've listen to podcasts or know what I'm interested in and then I can not worry
about it.
Like what's the next question?
Cause I can just listen and,
and that sounds really interesting.
I think the same I find applies in those meetings.
You know the,
and therefore you can relax and pay attention to what's happening in front of
you.
And sometimes we're so caught up in our own heads that we can't do that.
I get that a lot.
Uh,
I've just realized I've now taken the limelight when it should be yours.
Thank you.
Thank you so much for coming to speak to is to,
if I've enjoyed this so much,
I promise I'll try the power poses.
And my question was,
do you think that the rules for owning the room deffer for women and finance?
Yes.
Why does this the elephant in the room,
this question isn't it?
Is it different for women and for men?
So the book is called how to own the room.
Women in the art of brilliant speaking and that doesn't need to be a book called
how to weigh in the room.
Man and the arts have been at speaking,
it would not get published.
The reason I wanted to write it,
and I wrote it in the way that I did,
which is by a woman for women about women,
was that all of the other material on this subject was by men for men about men.
So you go back 10 20 years and the only examples are Martin Luther king,
Winston Churchill,
that they're all very classic and they're all very masculine examples.
And I wanted to do something that reflects the last 20 years when we've had this
huge turnaround,
largely due to digital media,
you know,
without digital media,
who would have ever seen Michelle Obama's speaking at the democratic
conventions?
Um,
even television hasn't had as big an impact as youtube,
ted talks,
Facebook live,
all of these things that give us a media access to women's speaking in terms of
where the audiences respond differently to men and women,
I think there's still something going on there,
but we don't really know what it is.
And it's something that is deep within our culture because I,
I'm not sure it's so bad now,
but when I started out as a standup,
I feel the energy change in the room of I,
it's a woman.
That's a shame.
Uh,
and that's the truth because a lot even women and women will offer,
oh,
women standups complained about this.
Women come up to you at the end and say,
oh,
I didn't expect you to be funny.
I don't like women Comedians,
women's saying this.
So there's a lot of cultural baggage in this stuff that's difficult for us to
talk about and difficult to know why we feel this way.
And for me it's more important just to let go of all that and just let it be and
do whatever you want to do to try and break through it.
Thank you.
I would recommend the book dove for men because pretty much everything in there
is also really,
really helpful for anyone doing public speaking,
I would say.
Yes.
Yeah.
And lots of men who've writes it.
Um,
and they're into the podcasts.
which only features women or that I'm thinking of having like a token male
series.
Um,
maybe no.
Uh,
they will say that this is not about gender.
It's about trying to do something to counter the phenomenon of the Alphas.
So the Alpha person who always,
and it doesn't,
again,
it doesn't have to be like the most high status person.
It could be a low status person.
He's just really noisy and takes up all the energy in the room and men feel that
as much as women.
And it's wanting to find a way to find your voice so that you get heard and it's
not just the most charismatic,
the most dynamic.
Do you know what I mean?
And,
and there's loads of other prejudices around this area as well,
like class,
accent,
how good looking you are.
Like the more good looking you are there,
more people are going to listen to you that that's a prejudice that's deep
within us as well.
So it's trying to break through one of these things and finding a way to be okay
with yourself.
I'm great.
Thank you so much.
This was really hilarious and amazing to hear you speak.
Um,
I was wondering,
my question is kind of similar to the whole female male dynamic,
but more seniority level.
So something for example that I notice in my team is our,
my boss's boss was a director is very funny,
right?
And he'll open up a meeting and always kind of do something funny to kind of
lighten the load and to make it a little bit,
you know,
to make it easy going.
However,
when you're more junior,
right,
it's actually tricky to do that.
Sometimes you can do that in full flat on your face.
So kind of knowing where your place is in a meeting or kind of what you talked
about earlier.
I was wondering if you,
if there's any kind of guidance you have around,
you know,
how much power you have,
right?
Like it's easy for Matt to be hilarious.
He's like the person in Emia,
right?
But if you're [inaudible] you can be,
you could walk,
but you know what I mean?
So how do you,
do you have any experience with that?
Have you seen people that are more junior kind of pull it off and to what
degree,
and I don't know,
just what are your thoughts around this?
I know it's a little bit of a Dick,
you know.
No,
it's a really great question and it's one that comes up quite a lot.
I do some work with senior women in much more formal organizations in this where
they are preparing a big keynote and they know there's a lot resting on it and
they'd like to find a moment of lightness or to make a joke at the beginning and
they don't know if they can get away with it.
And a lot of it is to do with risk and you have to become really expert at risk
assessment and you have to choose your battles.
So I think it's very personalized to each situation as to how high a risk that
would be to try that Jake and let it fall flat on your face to try a joke or
make a comment and for it to bomb can actually be a very high status thing
because you can bounce back from it.
And other people in the room were very inspired when that happens.
You know,
I'm,
I was telling Matt earlier about earlier this week,
I was doing a publishing event with eight offers where I was hosting everybody
getting through it on interviewing the more bigging up there,
Burkes and the headline act was going to be Bill Bryson,
uh,
the multi award winning multi,
massive big selling travel writer.
And he hadn't turned up and he wasn't going to come.
He canceled,
he keep genuinely couldn't physically get that in the end.
And they didn't want me to say this until the end of the event.
So I had this kind of weighing on me throughout of light.
At the end I've got to manage this energy and the time it was quite sort of
stressed and nervous and trying to camouflage that.
And then as I came to interview,
what are the last authors,
the notes that I had about her said that she'd written a contemporary debut.
So I announced their contemporary debut,
how exciting,
let's speak to the author.
And she sat down and I said,
congratulations on your first book.
And she said,
it's not my first book,
it's my third book.
And how I bounced back from that in that moment and I immediately was like,
Oh,
this is,
oh no,
I felt terrible for her because I insulted her.
I felt terrible for me because I looked really stupid and I felt bad because I
knew that after this there was going to come a moment where I had to say,
yeah.
Also by the way,
guys,
Bill Bryson's not here.
So,
uh,
in that split second I had to recover and say,
Oh,
I'm so sorry,
but this is a contemporary debut.
So your previous books must be historical.
Tell us why you moved into contemporary rather than historical.
So quickly find something to acknowledge my error.
Say Sorry,
move on.
And afterwards everyone in the room,
it was,
it was the publisher who published this book.
So everyone in the room had worked on it.
Everyone who'd worked on the book was in the room.
The Guy who bought the book was in the room.
All of this stuff.
One of my colleagues and they know know that I'm supposed to be the expert on
how to own the room and all of this.
And they said,
oh,
we loved what she needs,
screw up.
We loved it.
And to me,
that was a great moment and a great lesson because it's good to get things
wrong.
It's good to have a drink.
Fall flat is good to say the wrong thing sometimes.
I mean,
these things are kind of easy for me to say because I'm an outsider.
I'm external.
I do not work in a company.
And you need to also recognize the limits of these things and temper your
expectations.
Cause the same,
you can't say the same thing in the comedy club that you can say in this
environment or at your Q four marketing report,
right?
So you've got to adjust it.
So don't,
you know,
you're not going to go into the meeting and be Joan Rivers.
Um,
but yeah,
take a risk.
Why not?
Thank you.
That was really huge things to cross crop.
Thank you very much.
[inaudible].